# Goals:
- Overview of Terraform in Infrastructure Development
- Best Practice: Securing AWS Credentials in Terraform
- Authentication Best Practices
- File Management & Credential Verificatio
- Advantages of Saving the Plan - terraform plan -out=<file name>
- terraform apply --auto-approve
- Resource Name vs. Instance Name
- When to Use a Single String Value vs. a Map Concept
- Defining EC2 Server with Tags in main.tf file
- What is terraform.tfstate?
- Impact of Deleting the Statefile
- Variables & Variable Precedence
- terraform.tfvars
- variables.tf 
- output.tf 

## Overview of Terraform in Infrastructure Development

As an Infrastructure Developer, our focus lies in implementing Infrastructure as Code (IaC) methodologies, leveraging tools like Terraform for streamlined deployment and management of infrastructure on AWS cloud platform. Terraform serves as a robust IaC tool, facilitating the creation of infrastructure through code templates.

## Key Points:

- ```Terraform and IaC```: Terraform simplifies infrastructure management by allowing us to define infrastructure configurations as code, enabling reproducibility, scalability, and consistency across deployments.
- ```Versatility of Terraform```: Terraform supports various providers, with each provider representing a platform or service that can be managed using Terraform. For instance, AWS is a prominent provider in Terraform's ecosystem.
- ```Platform Expertise```: Proficiency in the target platform, such as AWS, is crucial for effective Terraform usage. Without adequate knowledge of the platform, writing Terraform code for deployment becomes challenging and may lead to errors or inefficiencies.
- ```Deployment Considerations```: When embarking on automation projects using Terraform, it's essential to align with the expertise of the team. If AWS is the chosen platform, expertise in AWS services and architecture enhances the effectiveness of Terraform deployments.

## Best Practice: Securing AWS Credentials in Terraform
- In Terraform infrastructure development, securing AWS credentials is paramount to prevent unauthorized access and potential security breaches. Storing access keys and secret access keys in plain text within the provider block is discouraged. Instead, configuring these credentials locally provides a more secure approach.
- Using Environmental Variables - AWS CLI stores credentials in the local system's home directory (~/.aws/credentials), enhancing security and accessibility for Terraform.
```
aws configure
AWS Access Key ID = <provide your access key>
AWS Secret Access Key = <provide your secret key>
Default region name = us-east-1
Default output format = json
```
- Ensure the AWS CLI is properly configured with the provided access key and secret key.
- Note: Avoid hardcoding credentials in Terraform configurations.

## Authentication Best Practices:

### Local Configuration:
Store access keys and secret access keys locally using the AWS CLI. Terraform will utilize these credentials without exposing them in plain text within the codebase.

### Environmental Variables: 
AWS CLI stores credentials in the local system's home directory (~/.aws/credentials), enhancing security and accessibility for Terraform.

### Shared Credentials: 
Employ shared configuration files for managing credentials across multiple projects or environments.

### EC2 Role: 
Leverage IAM roles attached to EC2 instances for authentication, enhancing security and reducing credential management overhead.

## File Management & Credential Verification:
- When modifying Terraform files, ensure to save changes before executing Terraform commands.
- Any alterations to Terraform configurations require saving the modified files for effective implementation.
- To verify which credentials are configured in the development system, utilize the AWS CLI
```
aws sts get-caller-identity
```

Given that environment variables are configured using the AWS CLI, my code in main.tf appears as above.

```
provider "aws" {
    region = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "webserver" { 
    ami           = "ami-0d7a109bf30624c99"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    key_name      = "prac"
}
```

### Initializing the Project:
The terraform init command is essential for setting up a new project. It downloads provider-specific plugins required to establish connections with AWS programmatically. These plugins are stored in the .terraform folder.

### Planning the Infrastructure:
After initializing the project, executing terraform plan generates an execution plan. This plan evaluates the current state of resources in AWS and compares it with the expected state defined in the Terraform configuration. Planning helps in identifying the resources to be created, modified, or destroyed.

### Applying Changes:
Following the planning phase, terraform apply applies the changes outlined in the execution plan. It prompts for confirmation before proceeding. Optionally, a plan can be saved to a specific file using the -out flag with terraform plan. Saving the plan facilitates future executions without re-evaluating the infrastructure.

## Advantages of Saving the Plan:

The command ```terraform plan -out=plan.out``` generates a Terraform execution plan and saves it to a file named plan.out. This file contains a detailed outline of the proposed changes to the infrastructure based on the current Terraform configuration.

- ```Convenient Execution```: By specifying a file name (e.g., plan.out) with the -out flag during terraform plan, the resulting plan is stored in a specific file. This file encapsulates the planned changes, making it easy to reference and apply later.
- ```Streamlined Application```:When executing terraform apply with the saved plan file as input (e.g., terraform apply plan.out), Terraform applies the changes outlined in the plan without re-evaluating them. This streamlined approach eliminates the need for Terraform to recompute the plan, saving time and resources.
- ```Pre-Approval```:Providing the plan file directly during terraform apply implies pre-approval of the planned changes. Terraform assumes that the plan has been reviewed and approved, bypassing the confirmation prompt. This reduces the likelihood of unintended changes and promotes consistent deployments.

### Destroying Resources:
To remove previously created resources, terraform destroy is utilized. This command destroys all resources managed by Terraform in the current configuration. Unlike terraform apply, terraform destroy cannot be invoked with a plan file.

## terraform apply --auto-approve
- The --auto-approve flag indicates that the plan is pre-approved, bypassing the need for manual confirmation in the console.
- By including this flag, Terraform executes the apply command without waiting for user confirmation.

## Resource Name vs. Instance Name:

### Resource Name:
- Specified outside the block for Terraform reference.
- Identifies the resource uniquely within the Terraform configuration.
- In the example, "webserver" is the resource name for the "aws_instance" resource type.

### Instance Name:
- Specified inside the block for AWS configuration.
- Defines specific attributes of the instance within AWS.
- Attributes like "ami", "instance_type", and "key_name" pertain to the instance named "webserver" in the AWS environment.

## When to Use a Single String Value vs. a Map Concept:
### Single String Value:
- Used for providing a single value.
- Enclosed in quotes.
- Typically used for alphanumeric values.
- Example: "test"

### Map Concept (Multiple Values):
- Used for providing multiple key-value pairs.
- Written within curly braces {}.
- Each key-value pair represents a specific attribute.
```
tags = {
  createdby = "Pavan"
  Name      = "test"
  ManagedBy = "terraform"   
}
```

## Example: Defining EC2 Server with Tags in main.tf file:
```
provider "aws" {
    region = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "webserver" { 
    ami           = "ami-0d7a109bf30624c99"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    key_name      = "prac"
    tags = {
      createdby = "Pavan"
      Name      = "test"
      ManagedBy = "terraform"   
    }
}
```

- When running terraform apply, if the statefile (terraform.tfstate) exists in the present working directory, Terraform checks for the desired state defined in the manifest file and compares it with the actual state stored in the statefile.
- Terraform applies any differences found between the desired and actual states, updating resources accordingly.
- The statefile is continuously updated to reflect changes made through Terraform, ensuring consistency between the defined infrastructure in code and the actual deployed resources in AWS.

## What is terraform.tfstate?
- Terraform.tfstate is a file generated automatically in the current folder when deploying resources for the first time using Terraform.
- It contains the current state of AWS resources.
- The file records exactly which resources are deployed in AWS and their specific characteristics.
- For example, when an EC2 instance is deployed, information about the EC2 instance, such as its metadata, is saved in the terraform.tfstate file.
- It is formatted as a JSON document containing key-value pairs.
- Under the "resources" block in the file, you can find detailed information about each resource deployed using Terraform.

## Impact of Deleting the Statefile:
- If you delete the statefile (terraform.tfstate), Terraform loses track of the existing infrastructure resources.
- When you run terraform apply after deleting the statefile, Terraform treats the project as new because it cannot find any previous state information.
- As a result, Terraform attempts to recreate resources as defined in the configuration file, assuming there are no existing resources.
- Since Terraform heavily relies on the statefile to manage infrastructure, it's crucial to ensure the statefile is securely stored and not corrupted.
- If the statefile is missing or corrupted, Terraform cannot accurately manage the existing infrastructure.
- In such scenarios, running terraform apply may lead to unintended consequences, such as creating duplicate resources in the cloud provider (e.g., AWS).
- Ultimately, Terraform's behavior is dictated by the cloud provider (e.g., AWS), and it reflects the current state of resources as determined by the provider.

## Variables
### Best Practice: It's not recommended to hardcode values directly into your code. Instead, maintain them in a separate file.
- Create a file named ```terraform.tfvars```. This file holds the values you want to assign to your variables.
```
region = "us-east-1"
ami = "ami-0d7a109bf30624c99"
instance_type = "t2.micro"
key_name = "prac"
createdby = "Pavan"
Name = "test"
ManagedBy = "terraform" 
```

## Declare Variables in variables.tf
- In the ```variables.tf``` file, declare the variables corresponding to the values in terraform.tfvars.

```
variable "region" {
  
}

variable "ami" {
  
}

variable "instance_type" {
  
}

variable "key_name" {
  
}

variable "createdby" {
  
}

variable "Name" {
  
}

variable "ManagedBy" {
  
}

```

## Usage in Terraform Configuration
- In your Terraform configuration files (e.g., provider.tf, ec2.tf etc.), reference the variables using var.<variable_name>.

### Create a file named provider.tf

```
provider "aws" {
    region = var.region
}
```
### Create a file named ec2.tf

```
resource "aws_instance" "webserver" { 
    ami = var.ami
    instance_type = var.instance_type
    key_name = var.key_name
    tags = {
      createdby = var.createdby
      Name = var.Name
      ManagedBy = var.ManagedBy
    }
}
```
## Default Values
- You can specify default values for variables in the variables.tf file. These values are overridden by values provided in terraform.tfvars.

## Variable Precedence
- Values provided in terraform.tfvars take precedence over default values specified in variables.tf. You can also provide values directly via the command line with terraform apply -var <variable_name>=<value>

## Output
- Use the output block to specify what information you want Terraform to provide after applying the configuration.
```
output "vpc_id" {
    value = aws_instance.webserver.id
}
```

## Execute Terraform commands in the terminal. For example:

- Applies the execution plan and creates resources.
```
terraform apply
```
- Destroys all created resources
```
terraform destroy
```
